I stretch so I have something to cuddle
at night. Just kidding. But why stretch?
Well, if you look at this study or this
study or virtually any study ever done
on stretching, two things are abundantly
clear. Number one, immediately after
stretching, you have a temporary
increase in range of motion. This is
useful for lifters who are so stiff they
could barely reach the barbell, let
alone tie their own shoes. All they got
to do is stretch before they lift. And
before anybody says it, no, it's not
going to make their lifts weaker as long
as they stay below 60 seconds of
stretching per muscle. This way, they
get more range of motion without the
loss of strength and power. And the
second thing that's abundantly clear is
your baseline range of motion increases
significantly. Meaning without a
warm-up, I can now do stuff like this
when in high school I could barely touch
my toes. I will not be able to convince
everyone to stretch cuz some people
they're just anti-stretch. And it's like
I'm trying to teach a blind person what
sight is and they're like a cane does
the same thing. Well yeah technically it
does but if you could have sight or in
this case a larger range of motion life
would be easier. And I truly do believe
that. And if you don't know where to
start I have free stretching ebooks.
Stay flexy.